Step 1: Setting Up Armitage
Install Metasploit Framework:
Ensure Metasploit is installed on your system. On Kali Linux, it's pre-installed. For other systems, you can install it via the following command:


sudo apt-get install metasploit-framework
Install Armitage:
On Kali Linux, Armitage is also pre-installed. For other distributions, you can install it using:


sudo apt-get install armitage
Start the PostgreSQL Database:
Metasploit uses PostgreSQL as its database. Start the service with:


sudo service postgresql start
Initialize the Metasploit Database:
Initialize the database with:

sudo msfdb init
Step 2: Launching Armitage
Start Metasploit's RPC Server:
Open a terminal and run:


msfrpcd -U msf -P yourpassword -f -S
Replace "yourpassword" with a password of your choice.

Open Armitage:
Start Armitage from the terminal with:


sudo armitage
Connect to the Metasploit RPC Server:

When Armitage opens, you will see a connection window.
Enter the following details:
Host: 127.0.0.1
Port: 55553 (default port for Metasploit RPC)
User: msf
Pass: yourpassword
Click "Connect".
Step 3: Conducting a Penetration Test with Armitage
Workspace Setup:

Once connected, set up your workspace to organize your tasks and targets.
Navigate to Workspace > Add Workspace and create a new one if needed.
Host Discovery:

Use Nmap for host discovery within Armitage. Go to Hosts > Nmap Scan and choose an appropriate scan type (e.g., Quick Scan).
Enter the target IP range and start the scan.
Import Hosts:

After the scan completes, the discovered hosts will be displayed in the workspace.
Vulnerability Scanning:

Use auxiliary modules to scan for vulnerabilities. Go to Modules > Auxiliary > Scanner and choose the appropriate scanner (e.g., smb > smb_version).
Launch the scan against the discovered hosts.
Exploitation:

Identify suitable exploits for the vulnerabilities found.
Navigate to Modules > Exploits and choose an exploit. For example, windows > smb > ms08_067_netapi.
Set the target and payload. Click Launch.
Post-Exploitation:

Once a host is exploited, you can perform post-exploitation tasks like gathering data, escalating privileges, etc.
Right-click on the compromised host in the workspace and choose actions from the menu (e.g., Meterpreter > Interact > Command Shell).
Reporting:

Generate reports to document your findings.
Navigate to Reports > Generate Report and select the type of report you need (e.g., compromised hosts, vulnerabilities).
Step 4: Closing Down
Cleanup:

Make sure to remove any backdoors or payloads deployed during the test.
Use Meterpreter commands to clean up (e.g., clearev to clear event logs).
Stop Services:

Stop the PostgreSQL service with:

sudo service postgresql stop
Exit Armitage:

Close the Armitage application.